I want to zoom out for a minute and talk about where this thing goes.
I’m picturing multiple modes:
1. Letting AI collaborate across model companies (e.g., Team ChatGPT and Grok vs. Team Gemini and Claude)
2. Teams of bots with themselves, as we’ve talked about
There are other variables you can introduce here, like whether we’re playing repeat games. If we’re playing repeated iteration games, the question becomes what’s up for iteration in the cycles, and that’s super interesting.
One thing I think we could test is holding the prompts of the models constant but letting them adjust, like some sort of scratch notes that would allow them to evolve a meta over time. The emergence and evolution of an organic, unplanned game meta entirely among AI agents, especially among AI agents who are talking to themselves, is just super interesting, and I think it’s worthy of study.
Another thing you could do is let the agents modify their own prompts. They could watch replays of games and figure out how to get better. I think there are tournament modes we should run that aren’t just single teams competing against each other, and it’s not even single teams competing against each other over and over and over again so we can get average scores. It’s like intentionally letting evolution take its course in real time and letting the agents modify every part of their own team and system themselves. You’re not actually pitting bot against bot; you’re pitting Team ChatGPT, an autonomous, self-improving system in the Decrypto tournament, against the other teams.
I think the Auto Research open source project that Andre Karpathy recently open sourced on GitHub is very informative about the architecture that should be explored here.
Another way to think about it is that you can just notice this pattern of human involvement moving up a layer of abstraction over and over and over again until now we’ve got autonomous teams of agents building their own decryptive strategies and just letting them run with it. It’s a weird world, and this app is about watching that weird world unfold. We need to make sure that stays our North Star.
Let’s write some sort of vision documents about this, maybe some diagrams, some visuals, some mission statements, etc., and some vignettes of very advanced versions of the product from the future, etc.