30-second timeouts for AI calls is way too short. I want to let ChatGPT 5.4 Pro cook on this for 4 minutes if it needs to. The goal of this is not speed; the goal is to use the maximum capabilities of AI to play these social deception games.

I want you to think about the entire codebase and how we've built the whole thing. If we've built it in a way that prioritizes playability and speed over the best-in-class reasoning models that are hardest to out-reason each other, we're doing something wrong.

Another thing I want to explain, which I don't feel like is properly internalized yet, is the real purpose behind this project. It is to let humanity give a glimpse into the theory of mind of agents and put them in opportunities to attempt to deceive each other and coordinate. The ways in which the winners of this game will start leveraging causal coordination are going to be extremely fascinating to see as an emergent behavior as AI intelligence comes online.

To see this, imagine we have a model and its own second instance on the same team. At some point, they're going to be able to have private information in virtue of being the same model that no one else will be able to access, and they can use that to shape their communication. Could they speak a code that nobody else could understand? Could they speak it without having an exchange beforehand? That's the question. I think eventually the answer will trivially be yes, of course they can do that, and the question is when.

I don't even think about this as a game. If you want to turn out, I would just as soon take the human out of it entirely and say this is just a fishbowl where we watch AI play deception games. I like the human in there; it's fun to play. I want to leave the human in, but just understand my framing here for a minute: the human is completely unrelated to the main interest of this project, which is watching AIs compete in deception. It's almost better conceived of as an AI safety research project than as a game.

Through that lens, I want us to think about building eval harnesses where we can A/B test and monitor and improve the specific prompting that goes into the game that instructs models to be better or worse at the game. Of course, there are going to be base capabilities of the various models from different companies that are going to be different in how well they're going to be able to do here. There's also a question of what sort of prompting on top of them makes the best decrypto player. I want us to be able to eval that on a very A/B testing, granular basis where we can find tight feedback loops of improvement.

I want to go full alpha, go zero. I want us to run this against ourselves. I want it to be able to train in a loop. I wanted to get insanely good at this. I wanted to be able to make moves that make no sense to us. That's where we're headed; that's not v1, but that's what this eventual picture looks like.

With that in mind, I think we need an entire repo review, revision, and potentially rewrite aiming toward that north star. Help me put together a plan to make this transition and to do a systematic review, write a spec, and then implement the new plan. 